 

Que. 1.	What is a computer?

(Answer) A computer is an electronic device that can receive, store, process, and output data. It is a machine that can perform a variety of tasks and operations, ranging from simple calculations to complex simulations and artificial intelligence.

Computers consist of hardware components such as the central processing unit (CPU), memory, storage devices, input/output devices, and peripherals, as well as software components such as the operating system and applications.


Que.2     What is RAM?

(Answer) It is one of the parts of the Main memory, also famously known as Read Write Memory. Random Access memory is present on the motherboard and the computer’s data is temporarily stored in RAM. As the name says, RAM can help in both Read and write. RAM is a volatile memory, which means, it is present as long as the Computer  is in the ON state, as soon as the computer turns OFF, the memory is erased.


Que.3	where is data stored in a computer?

(Answer)	The computer stores all the data in the memory, and it is the internal component on all laptop and desktop PCs that writes and reads data through a spinning head over a magnetic disc.

Some modern laptops use solid-state drives instead of mechanical hard drives, offering faster and more efficient data storage.


Que.4	what is that input device used to type text and numbers on a document in the computer system?

(Answer) " Keyboard " is that input device that is used to type text and numbers on a document in the computer system.


Que.5	What are the output devices?

(Answer) Output Devices are those devices which show us the result after giving the input data to a computer system. Output can be in different forms like image, graphic audio, video, etc.
And these are examples of output devices:- Monitor
Printer
Headphones etc.



Que.6	Which is the input device that allows a user to move the cursor or pointer on the screen?

(Answer) " Mouse " is that input device that allow to users to move the cursor or pointer on the screen.


Que.7	Which language is directly understand by the computer without a translation program?

(Answer)	" Binary language " is that language that directly understand by the computer without a translation program.


Que.8	What are input devices?

(Answer)	In computing, an input device allows information to be entered into the computer system, either from the user or another computer. These are known as input devices or power supply devices (input)—for example, a keyboard, mouse, or microphone.
