Que.1   Explain different types of errors in java?
(Answer)   There are several types of errors that occur in Java, including syntax errors, runtime errors, and logical errors. They are

Syntax Errors or Compilation Errors: These occur when the code violates the rules of the Java syntax. These errors are usually caught by the Java compiler during the compilation phase.
 
Runtime Errors: These errors occur when the code encounters an unexpected behaviour during its execution. These errors are usually caused by flawed logic or incorrect assumptions in the code and can be difficult to identify and fix.
 
Logical Errors: These occur when the program is executing correctly, but the result is not what was intended. These errors can be difficult to identify and fix, as the program is running correctly but producing unintended results.
 
Linking Errors: Linking errors occur when the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) tries to link a class file during runtime but encounters a problem. This can happen if a required class or library is missing, or if there is a problem with the syntax or format of the code. 
 
Class Loading Errors: Class loading errors occur when the JVM attempts to load a class into memory but encounters a problem. This can happen if the class file is missing or corrupted, or if there is a problem with the classpath.


Que.2   What is an Exception in java?
(Answer)   An unwanted or unexpected event that disturbs the normal execution of a program is called "Exception".

Que.3   How can you handle exception in java? Explain with an example.
(Answer)    Exception handling can be perfomed using:

Try:  the set of statements or code which requires monitoring for an exception is kept under this block.
Catch:  this block catches all exceptions that were trapped in the try block.
Finally:   this is always performed irrespective of the catching of exceptions in the try or catch block.

  
Example:

class Demo { 
    public static void main (String[] args) { 
      int a=5; 
      int b=0; 
        try{ 
          int result=a/b;
        } 
      catch(ArithmeticException e){ 
        System.out.println("something went wrong"+e); 
      } 
System.out.println(result);
    } 
} 


Que.4   Why do we need exception handling in java?
(Answer)    If there is no try and catch block while an exception occurs , the program will terminate . Exception handling ensures the smooth running of a program without program termination.

Que.5   What is the difference between exception and error in java?
(Answer)   These are the diffrence between exception and error in java:


exception:
Exception can be recovered by using the try-catch block. An error cannot be recovered.

It can be classified into two categories i.e. checked and unchecked.

It occurs at compile time or run time.

error:
All errors in Java are unchecked.

It occurs at run time.

Errors will not be known to the compiler.

Que.6   Name the different types of exceptions in java?
( Answer)    Exceptions can be categorized into two ways:

1. Built-in Exceptions
        Checked Exception
        Unchecked Exception

2. User-Defined Exceptions

Que.7   Can we just use try instead of finally and catch blocks? Give an example.
(Answer)   No, doing so will compilation error . Catch of Finally block must always accompany try  block. We can remove either finally block or catch block,but never both.



















