Que. 1    What is programming language?
(Answer)   A programming language is a computer language that is used by programmers (developers) to communicate with computers. It is a set of instructions written in any specific language ( C, C++, Java, Python) to perform a specific task.

Que. 2    Why do we need programming language?
(Answer)   we need programming language because the computer understands only machine language and it is very difficult for the humans to do the work on computer by machine language so we use programming language  and the compiler works as an mediater it compiles or convert the high level language into the machine level language.

Que. 3     what are the features of java?
(Answer)     These are the features of java :-

 1.  Platform Independent: Compiler converts source code to bytecode and then the JVM executes the bytecode generated by the compiler. This bytecode can run on any platform be it Windows, Linux, or macOS which means if we compile a program on Windows, then we can run it on Linux and vice versa. Each operating system has a different JVM, but the output produced by all the OS is the same after the execution of the bytecode. That is why we call java a platform-independent language.

2. Object-Oriented Programming Language: Organizing the program in the terms of a collection of objects is a way of object-oriented programming, each of which represents an instance of the class.

The four main concepts of Object-Oriented programming are:

Abstraction
Encapsulation
Inheritance
Polymorphism
3. Simple:  Java is one of the simple languages as it does not have complex features like pointers, operator overloading, multiple inheritances, and Explicit memory allocation. 

4. Robust:  Java language is robust which means reliable. It is developed in such a way that it puts a lot of effort into checking errors as early as possible, that is why the java compiler is able to detect even those errors that are not easy to detect by another programming language. The main features of java that make it robust are garbage collection, Exception Handling, and memory allocation.

5. Secure:  In java, we don’t have pointers, so we cannot access out-of-bound arrays i.e it shows ArrayIndexOutOfBound Exception if we try to do so. That’s why several security flaws like stack corruption or buffer overflow are impossible to exploit in Java. Also, java programs run in an environment that is independent of the os(operating system) environment which makes java programs more secure.

Que.4    What is an object?
(Answer)    Object can be defined as it a real world entity.  or it is an instance of the class.

Que. 5     What is a class?
(Answer)   A class is user defined data types which holds its own data members and member functions in a single unit and that single unit is known as class.

Que.6   Explain about the main method in java?
(Answer)   The main()  method  is the starting point for JVM to start execution of a Java program. Without the main() method, JVM will not execute the program. The syntax of the main() method is:

Java Main Method :-    public static void main(String args[])

public: It is an access specifier. We should use a public keyword before the main() method so that JVM can identify the execution point of the program. If we use private, protected, and default before the main() method, it will not be visible to JVM.

static: You can make a method static by using the keyword static. We should call the main() method without creating an object. Static methods are the method which invokes without creating the objects, so we do not need any object to call the main() method.

void: In Java, every method has the return type. Void keyword acknowledges the compiler that main() method does not return any value.

main(): It is a default signature which is predefined in the JVM. It is called by JVM to execute a program line by line and end the execution after completion of this method. We can also overload the main() method.

String args[]: The main() method also accepts some data from the user. It accepts a group of strings, which is called a string array. It is used to hold the command line arguments in the form of string values.  

