Que.1  What is an Interface in java?
(Answer)   An interface in Java is a blueprint of a class. It has static constants and abstract methods.

The interface in Java is a mechanism to achieve abstraction. There can be only abstract methods in the Java interface, not method body. It is used to achieve abstraction and multiple inheritance in Java.

In other words, you can say that interfaces can have abstract methods and variables. It cannot have a method body


Que.2  Which modifiers are allowed for methods in an Interface ? Explain with an exaple.
(Answer)   As of Java7 we can have only public, abstract as modifiers for the methods of an interface.

Example:-
interface MyInterface{
   public abstract void display();
   public abstract void setName(String name);
   public abstract void setAge(int age);
}

Que.3  What is the use of interface in java?or, why do we use an interface in java?
(Answer)   There are mainly three reasons to use interface. They are given below.

It is used to achieve abstraction.
By interface, we can support the functionality of multiple inheritance.
It can be used to achieve loose coupling.

And we use interface in java to achieve security.

Que.4   What is the difference between abstract class and interface in java?
(Answer)   basically, these are the main difference between abstract class and interface:-

abstract class:-
1) Abstract class can have abstract and non-abstract methods.
2) Abstract class doesn't support multiple inheritance.
3) Abstract class can have final, non-final, static and non-static variables.
4) Abstract class can provide the implementation of interface.
5) The abstract keyword is used to declare abstract class.
6) An abstract class can extend another Java class and implement multiple Java interfaces.
7) An abstract class can be extended using keyword "extends".

interface:-
Interface can have only abstract methods. Since Java 8, it can have default and static methods also.
Interface supports multiple inheritance.
Interface has only static and final variables.
Interface can't provide the implementation of abstract class.
The interface keyword is used to declare interface.
An interface can extend another Java interface only.
An interface can be implemented using keyword "implements".











